
CHAPTER 1

19:23, Sunday, somewhere in the Pacific Ocean

Cradled underneath by soft white sand.
Cloudless sky stretching impossible blue over head.
Hours pass effortlessly and without mention as you lie back and wait for eternity.

The late evening sun washes upon the tropical island, falling down toward the endless horizon with slow and easy inevitability.
Waves lap at the shore with a rocky rhythm, casually marking the seconds as they trickle through your fingers like coarse grains of salt.
Your own breathing gently synchronises. You think about your ever-beating heart, pumping steady as the great currents of the ocean.
For long moments you feel each and every cell in your body reverbrate in awesome harmony with this great creation.
At such times your worldly cares and concerns evaporate and do not condense, instead carried away by the fragrant breeze sweet with birdsong.

A jagged giant monstrosity of a coconut palm stands mighty beside you, towering over the sandy depression into which you nestle deep.
Fingers of shade and sunlight play across your face and arms, delicious cold-hot contrast stroking your glowing skin.
Eyes half-open half-shut in a reflection of the Budda, you are deep in the warm natural embrace of a perfect clockwork world.
Here you are alone, fully alone, unable to be found - no self left to find. 

Forehead and brow - relaxed, smooth, untouched by worldly cares.
Eyelids - closed as you melt in the tender embrace of this (almost) uninhabited island.
Fingertips - utterly alive as you explore the silky mystery of these unknown sands.

With glacial grace the sun plunges down below the horizon.
A melting tsunami of colour pours through heaven as though the world were trapped in amber.
You don't know when you first notice the stars, the other planets, all the possibilities they represent.
Tiny sparks wheeling perfect elipses around you.
The moon rises full and wonderful, illuminating your surroundings with it's pale ghostly shimmer.
The waves swell and recede like a tremor through liquid mercury. The great palm tree creaks quietly.

You are both fully present and fully abent: a singular point adrift in an ocean of space and a cavern of time.
An infinitely differentiable spectrum of fleeting sensory impulse, momentarily at loss of any attempt at interpretation.
A speck of dust in a storm, dancing through the thin glimmer of a sunbeam. Forever could pass in an instant.

Instead: a huge bloated coconut breaks free above, smashes straight down through your stupid blissful face.
A once wonderful snowflake, some tender unique lattice of neurons obliterated by dumb gravity in a pointless act of entropy.
Crushed to a bloody smoothie of skull, brain & sand - garnished with one bloody mad eyeball, glittering in the moonlight.
Gleaming red crabs surge forth from the waves, claws-clicking eager to feast upon your fresh delicious scraps.
Floating over your recently departed carcass you witness the scene in gloriously gory detail.

You ascend shocked, paralysed & captivated upwards.
Your mind reels without control, comprehension failing.
Yourself falling violently prey to the dumbest part of the food chain.

The graphics on this system are really fucking impressive.

--

03:14, Monday, Amsterdam

I never meant to spend so much time in virtual, or to get so invested - emotionally, socially, intimately. Nobody ever does.
Reality, with it's endless parade of lockdowns and unstoppably rising body count, could never be so fulfilling.
It started out socially (doesn't it always) - you get the gear for remote-hangouts, for work, for a long-distance relationship at risk of severance.
For virtual poker, for gaming, for partying with old friends now shut behind impregnable new borders.
Once sprouted the habit creeps deep like an unstoppable weed.
I had devloped this island hideaway weeks ago, a rough hack thrown together using open-source components.
A video-game physics engine plugged into the rendering software of the headset and gloves. Just to learn how it's done, you know?
A homebuilt library of models, sound and sensation. Somewhere between a custom motorcycle and one of those Japanese rock gardens.
My home-rolled cyber-paradise. I took pleasure in fine-tuning the parameters, tweaking the radience of simulated sun on bare skin:
warm but not burning, disappating in perfect equilibrium with the freshening sea breeze. It takes love, man.
The place slowly became my regular haunt, my hideaway from my family and my responsibility and myself.
The only place I could meditate, away from the steady grind of interpersonal friction in a home sealed and shringking smaller by the day.

And then, a fucking coconut!? 
Splattered all across the pristing sand in deep sensual detail.
Not so much seen/heard/felt as experienced, like a dripping slick icicle piercing brainstem.
Ejected from my only means of escaping this ever-more-desperate world.

It wasn't supposed to end this way.

They say that the five stages of grief are denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance.
I've always been a fast learner. Even if I wasn't - this pandemic has been ample practice.
With horror I discover the little-known sixth stage of grief from the damp wet sludge covering my nether-regions and the fetid, familiar reek.
Spontaneous incontinence - a horrid mass of piss and shit overflowing my boxer shorts. I can only that I put it there. 
I'm shaking furiously, eyes wide-open but perceiving only darkness and salty wet tears.
My clammy white skin is wrinked and shocked by a sudden cold thick layer of sweat.
I feel movement near my ears and the sound of my own tortoured wretching is an assult.
I'm convulsing, writhing with the helpless despair of a newborn and a growing self-aware cancer of disgust.

My pupils flare wide as the blackness around me slides upward. A sting of pain makes my eyelids wince shut.
In agonizing seconds I force them open, a fuzzy room resolving into view through a transparent visor over my eyes.

My hands, wrapped in gloves. My desk. My laptop. My flat.
Brain sputters into effect. First order of business is the sick putrid mess I'm swimming in. Like a champ, I hold back the urge to vomit.

My wife, calling from the alcove over where I sit.
"Schatzi*, is everything OK? I heard a noise"
The bottom drops out of my fucking stomach. If Yolanda finds me like this she'll never want to fuck me again, with good reason.
I reply just a little too loud  "Am alright love!" and begin tearing off the array of costly electronics from my body:
optical-feedback goggles, Dolby 360 headset balaclava, control gloves with thermal and tacitile response.
I'm glad that I didn't yet shell out for any VR gear for my lower half. It would have been hard to get a refund at this point.

I hear the bed creak as Yolanda sits up. I panic. She asks "Can you smell something bad? Like really really awful?"
Thinking fast I reply. "Yeah, I think one of the cats took a shit. Don't worry, I'll clean it. Go back to sleep."
A hot dripping sensation runs from my left knee down my shin all the way to my ankle.
Yolanda yawns. She sounds sleepy - thank fuck for that.
"Maybe we need to change their food. It smells like a dead herring orgy. We'll talk about it tomorrow."

Relief. I get up, unsteady, and stumble toward our kitchen. "I love you, night". She replies in kind.
I don't switch the light on. Materials gathered.Trash bags. Paper towels. Disinfectant wipes. Wet wipes. Rubber gloves - far too late for that.
On crude but effective autopilot I dispose of the worst of the crime at my desk chair.
Strip. Boxers, shorts and socks - trash bag. Bin. Finished, I hobble into the shower.
Door locked. Hot water. Finally, the clean extacy of safety and isolation. I collapse into the shower, pull the door shut and am reborn.

03:38

I'm calm now. Collected. Clean. Swirling steam and white tiles, no odour, just dripping water and peace. I have got my shit together.
You might be thinking from my rather extreme reaction that I'm a fresher when it comes to living my own death in cyberspace.
Not true. Like both happy well-adjusted young men and also mercyless school shooters,
I've been socialised from a young age to commit and experience casual computerised murder on a limitless scale ever since Call Of Duty.
This time was different.  As reality gives way to successive waves of war and plague, it has been supplanted by the virtual.
And now some fucking bug has ruined it for me...






